#summary Projects that use jquery-jsonp

==Applications==

====[http://mobileabstracts.com Mobile Abstracts]====

Use Mobile Abstracts to search the 16,000 medical journal abstracts in PubMed from your iPhone or iPod Touch, anywhere you have an internet connection. Find the citations, read the abstracts, and even pull up the PDF's.

==Websites / Services==

====[http://www.nibbo.com/ Nibbo]===

While other search engines offer only one type of search at a time, Nibbo will show a preview of multiple search types in an unobstrusive way, and provide information like the number of results that are to be expected for the different engines. The type and order of those previews is completely configurable, as well as the default search settings.

====[http://playlistify.org/ PlayListify.org]====

Everybody loves Spotify. We too! However some things can be enhanced. How to link your iTunes to your Spotify player for example? Or combine Spotify and Last.fm or Imeem?

I have built a solution for that which lets you easily turn your iTunes Library and iTunes playlists into Spotify playlists, with minimal effort, and almost completely automated!

====[http://tweepsect.com/ tweepsect]====

Tweep: A user of Twitter.

Stalker: A tweep who follows another who does not follow them back.

Tweepsect: Intersect a tweep's lists of followers and following tweeps to determine who is stalking the tweep and who the tweep is stalking.

====[http://www.epa.gov/waters/tools/WATERSServicesJSLib/WATERSServicesJSLib.html WATERS JavaScript Library]====

The WATERS JavaScript Library provides an easy to use interface that hides the complexities of calling the WATERS HTTP services. The library supports both AJAST and AJAX style requests.

==Plugins==

====[http://code.google.com/p/jquery-twitter-api/ jQuery Twitter API]====

jQuery Twitter API aims to give Web developers the ability to request Twitter public informations from a simple JavaScript function call. See Twitter API for more information http://apiwiki.twitter.com/.

====[http://jsguy.com/?p=103&cpage=1#comment-671 Long Poll JSONP]====

On the front end we make a jsonp request, which when finished, starts up again. We are of course passing a token that indicates what data we received, for example a timestamp.

That describes long polling in a nutshell; of course there are some pitfalls and issues to watch out for with this technique, such as error handling, server timeout and connection timing.

====[http://yoxigen.com/yoxview/ YoxView]====

YoxView is a free image and video viewer for websites. It's written in javascript using jQuery and is available as a jQuery plugin.

YoxView is inspired by Lokesh Dhakar's Lightbox. Like it, YoxView displays content above the website's content, as a separate layer.